---
layout: post
title: 'CV'
tags: [cv]
description: >
  
---

* [Click here to download a PDF version](/website/sander/CV_SanderBeckers.pdf)

### Sander Beckers 
_Curriculum Vitae_  

[Google Scholar page](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=7aqN2U4AAAAJ&hl=en)

***

### Contact

E-mail: <a href="mailto:srekcebrednas@gmail.com?Subject=Job%20Offer%20from%20[Fill%20in%20your%20prestigious%20university]" target="_top">srekcebrednas@gmail.com</a>

***

### Employment

* 10/2024-?
	*  Postdoctoral Scholar  
	Department of Computer Science, Cornell University
* 2023-2024
	*  Postdoctoral Scholar  
	Institute for Logic, Language and Computation, University of Amsterdam
* 2021-2023
	*  Postdoctoral Scholar  
	Cluster of Excellence in Machine Learning for Science: Ethics and Epistemology of ML, University of Tübingen
* 2022 Spring
	*  Visiting Scholar (host: James Woodward)  
	Department of History and Philosophy of Science, University of Pittsburgh
* 2019-2021
	*  Humboldt Postdoctoral Fellow (supervisor: Stephan Hartmann)  
	Munich Center for Mathematical Philosophy, LMU Munich
* 2020 Fall
	*  NIAS-Lorentz Theme-group Fellow  
	Netherlands Institute for Advanced Studies, Amsterdam
* 2019 January
	* Visiting scholar (host: Frederick Eberhardt)  
	Division of the Humanities and Social Sciences, Caltech
* 2018-2019
	*  Postdoctoral scholar (supervisor: Jan Broersen)  
	Department of Philosophy and Religious Studies, Utrecht University
* 2017 Fall
	* Visiting postdoctoral scholar  (supervisor: James Conant)  
	Institute of Philosophy, Leipzig University
* 2016-2017 	
	* Visiting B.A.E.F. Fellow  (supervisor: Joe Halpern)  
	Department of Computer Science, Cornell University
* 2010-2011    
	* Researcher at University of Leuven, EAVISE research group    
	[_Project: S.O.S. OpenCL: Multicore Cooking_](http://www.eavise.be/projects.php#sos_opencl)  
* 2008-2009	
	* (part-time) internship as actuary  
	Aon Benfield Belgium and BNP Paribas Belgium, Employee Benefits	  

***

### Education

* 2012-2016    
	* Ph.D. in Computer Science, October 2016  
	KULeuven - University of Leuven, Belgium  
	_Dissertation: Actual Causation: Definitions and Principles  
	Supervisors: Hendrik Blockeel and Joost Vennekens_  
* 2013 Fall    
	* Visiting doctoral researcher (supervisor: Stephan Hartmann)  
	Munich Center for Mathematical Philosophy  
* 2011: Master in Mathematics, University of Leuven  
	_Dissertation: Deductive Reasoning in Guarded FO(ID)  
	Supervisor: Marc Denecker_ 
* 2008: Bridge program Mathematics, University of Leuven 
* 2006: Master in Philosophy, University of Leuven  
	_Dissertation: Wittgenstein en het Ethische  
	Supervisor: Arnold Burms  
	2005: one semester abroad at Stellenbosch University, South Africa_
* 2004: Bachelor in Philosophy, University of Antwerp 

***

### Grants, Fellowships, and Awards

* 2023
	* Best Paper Award: Backtracking Counterfactuals, _CLeaR 2023_.

* Fall-2020
	* [NIAS-Lorentz Theme Group](https://nias-lorentz.nl/nltg-theme-groups/)
* 2019-2021
	* [Humboldt Research Fellowship for Postdoctoral Researchers](https://www.humboldt-foundation.de)
* 2016-2017
	* [Research Fellowship, Belgian American Educational Foundation](http://www.baef.be)
* 2012-2015   
	* [Ph.D. Grant for Fundamental Research, Flanders Innovation & Entrepreneurship](https://www.fwo.be/en/fellowships-funding/phd-fellowships/phd-fellowship-fundamental-research/) 

*** 

### Refereeing

AAAI (PC 2017, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024), AI & Society, AIES conference (2024), AIStats 2022, Analysis (2), Australasian Journal of Logic, CLeaR (2024, 2025), Dialectica, Ergo, Erkenntnis (6), Ethics and Information Technology (2), European Journal for Philosophy of Science (2), FaccT 2023, Information, IJCAI 2020, Journal of Causal Inference, Journal of Logic and Computation, Journal of Machine Learning Research (2), Journal of Philosophical Logic (2), Journal of Philosophy, Journal of Social Philosophy, Kriterion, Mind, Minds and Machines (3), NeurIPS (2023, 2024), Philosophical Studies (3), Philosophy and Theory of Artificial Intelligence, Philosophy of Science, Synthese (6), Review of Symbolic Logic, The Philosophical Review, UAI (2024, 2025), Various AI workshops for AAAI, NeurIPS, ICML, etc.


### Research

#### Main Publications

Beckers, S. (2025). Nondeterministic Causal Models, _CLeaR 2025_.

Beckers, S. (2025). Actual Causation and Nondeterministic Causal Models, _CLeaR 2025_.

Belle, V., Chockler, H., Vallor, S., Varshney, K.R., Vennekens, J., and Beckers, S. (2024). Trustworthiness and Responsibility in AI - Causality, Learning and Verification (Dagstuhl Seminar 24121) _Dagstuhl Reports_.

Beckers, S., Chockler, H., and Halpern, J.Y. (2024). A Causal Analysis of Harm, _Minds and Machines_.

Beckers, S. (forthcoming). What Does it Take to Make a Difference? Reply to Andreas and Günther, _Journal of Philosophy_.

Beckers, S. (2023). Moral Responsibility for AI Systems, _NeurIPS 2023_.

Beckers, S., Chockler, H, and Halpern, J.Y. (2023). Quantifying Harm, _IJCAI 2023_.

Beckers, S., Halpern, J.Y., and Hitchcock, C. (2023). Causal Models with Constraints, _CLeaR 2023_.

von Kügelgen, J., Mohamed, A., and Beckers, S. (2023). Backtracking Counterfactuals, _CLeaR 2023_.

Beckers, S., Chockler, H, and Halpern, J.Y. (2022). A Causal Analysis of Harm, _NeurIPS 2022_.

Beckers, S. (2022). Causal Explanations and XAI, _Causal Learning and Reasoning 2022_.

Beckers, S. (2021). Causal Sufficiency and Actual Causation, _Journal of Philosophical Logic_.

Beckers, S. (2021). The Counterfactual NESS Definition of Causation, _AAAI 2021_.

Beckers, S. (2021). Equivalent Causal Models, _AAAI 2021_.

Beckers, S., Eberhardt, F., and Halpern, J.Y. (2019). Approximate Causal Abstraction, _UAI 2019_.

Beckers, S. and Halpern, J.Y. (2019). Abstracting Causal Models, _AAAI 2019_.

Beckers, S. (2018). AAAI: an Argument Against Artificial Intelligence, In Vincent C. Müller (ed.), _Philosophy of Artificial Intelligence 2017_.

Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2018). A Principled Approach to Defining Actual Causation, _Synthese_.

Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2017). The Transitivity and Asymmetry of Actual Causation, _Ergo_.

Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2016). A General Framework for Defining and Extending Actual Causation using CP-logic, _International Journal for Approximate Reasoning_.

#### Other Publications


Beckers, S. (2017). AAAI: an Argument Against Artificial Intelligence, _AAAI Workshop on AI, Ethics and Society 2017_.

Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2015). Towards a General Definition of Actual Causation Using CP-logic. _ICLP Workshop on Probabilistic Logic Programming 2015_.

Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2015). Combining Probabilistic, Normative, and Causal Reasoning in CP-logic, _Symposium on Logical Formalizations of Commonsense Reasoning 2015_. 

Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2012). Counterfactual Dependency and Actual Causation in CP-logic and Structural Models: a Comparison. _STAIRS 2012. 

Beckers, S., De Samblanx, G., De Smedt, F., Goedemé, T., Struyf, L., and Vennekens, J. (2012). Parallel hybrid SAT solving using OpenCL. _BNAIC 2012_

Beckers, S., De Samblanx, G., De Smedt, F., Goedemé, T., Struyf, L., and Vennekens, J. (2011). Parallel SAT-solving with OpenCL. _IADIS International Conference on Applied Computing 2011_.

***

#### Talks

Invited Talks and Colloquia (regular Conference Talks not included) 

2025-07 Invited Keynote Speaker, UAI workshop on ‘Causal Abstractions and Representations’, Rio de Janeiro

2025-07 Invited Keynote Speaker, closing workshop of the ‘Bias, Risk and Opacity in AI Research Project, University of Milan

2025 'Personalised Decision-Making in Medicine and Causing Harm', Invited Speaker, University of Exeter series on ‘Causality’ (online)

2025 ‘Actual Causation in Nondeterministic Causal Models’, Invited speaker, University of Bergen

2024 ‘A Causal Analysis of Harm’, colloquium, Munich Center for Mathematical Philosophy

2024 ‘Causal Abstractions using Generalized Functions’, Invited speaker, Causal Abstraction, Reasoning, and Extrapolation seminar (online) 

2024 ‘Moral Responsibility for AI Systems’, Dagstuhl Seminar on Trustworthiness and Responsibility in AI

2023 ‘What Does It Take To Make A Difference? A Reply to Andreas and Günther’, Invited speaker, PALLMYR, University College London

2023 ‘Moral Responsibility for AI Systems’, Invited speaker, Amsterdam Causality Meeting

2023 ‘Backtracking Counterfactuals’, Invited speaker, Artificial Intelligence, Causality, and Personalised Medicine Symposium, Leibniz AI Lab

2023 ‘Backtracking Counterfactuals’, Invited speaker, Kyoto Causation Workshop, Kyoto University

2023 ‘A Causal Analysis of Harm’, Invited speaker, SIKS course on Human-Centered AI, Utrecht

2023 ‘A Causal Analysis of Harm’, Invited speaker, Causality in Practice, Institute Pascal, Paris

2023 ‘Backtracking Counterfactuals’, Invited speaker, Inspiration Sessions, SAP (online)

2023 ‘Causal Sufficiency and Actual Causation’, Invited speaker, Workshop on Causation and Modality in Logic and Language, University of Amsterdam

2023 ‘Abstracting Causal Models’, Invited speaker, Causality Discussion Group (online)

2022 ‘Causal Abstractions and Causal Representation Learning’, Invited speaker, First Workshop on Causal Representation Learning, UAI, Eindhoven

2022 ‘Causal Sufficiency and Actual Causation’, Invited speaker, Online Causal Inference Seminar (online)

2021 ‘The Causal and Epistemic Conditions for Moral Responsibility,’, Invited speaker, Christian List’s Research Seminar, LMU-Munich (online)

2021 ‘Causal Sufficiency and Actual Causation’, Invited speaker, Logic Seminar, University of Milan (online)

2021 ‘Reflections on the Causal Approach to Fair AI’, Invited speaker, AI Challenges to Established Legal Institutions Roundtable Conference, Monash University (online)

2021 ‘Actual Causation and Moral Responsibility’, Invited speaker, Cognition, Values, and Behaviour Lab Meetings, LMU-Munich, Germany (online)

2020 ‘Accountability in medical autonomous systems: ethical and epistemological challenges for explainable AI’, NIAS Theme group, NIAS seminar, Amsterdam, the Netherlands (online)

2020 ‘Formalizing Non-Reductive Supervenience using Causal Models with Constraints’, Invited speaker, Symposium on Interventionism and Causal Exclusion, Nijmegen, the Netherlands

2019 ‘Causation and the Principle of Alternative Possibilities’, Invited speaker, Free Will and Causality conference, Dusseldorf, Germany

2018 ‘Applying Causal Modeling to Philosophical Issues’, Invited talk, Logic and Metaphysics Workshop, CUNY

2017 ‘Formal Ethics’, Invited talk, Center for Human-Compatible AI, UC Berkeley

2015 ‘A Principled Approach to Defining Actual Causation’, Invited talk, Tilburg Center for Logic, Ethics, and Philosophy of Science, the Netherlands

2015 ‘The Problem of Actual Causation’, Epistemology Reading Group, Department of Linguistics and Philosophy, MIT

2014 ‘Actual Causation using CP-logic’, Declarative Languages and AI seminar, University of Leuven, Belgium

2013 ‘Actual Causation using CP-logic’, colloquium, Munich Center for Mathematical Philosophy

2013 ‘Actual Causation: the CP-logic Approach’, Invited talk, INRIA, Grenoble, France

2013 ‘Actual Causation in Cases of Preemption: the CP-logic Approach’, Center for Logic and Analytic Philosophy colloquium, University of Leuven, Belgium

2012 ‘Parallel hybrid SAT solving using OpenCL’, Declarative Languages and AI seminar, University of Leuven, Belgium


***

### Teaching

University of Amsterdam

* Bachelor in Artificial Intelligence, lectures: 
	* 2023-2024: Philosophy & AI

* Master of Logic, lectures: 
	* 2023: Philosophical Logic
   
* Master of Logic, student project (7 students): 
	* 2024: Actual Causation
    
Utrecht University

* Bachelor in Philosophy, tutorials:
	* 2018-2019: Logic for philosophers
	* 2018-2019: Epistemology and Philosophy of Science
        * 2019: Philosophical Reflection on Scientific Models of Man

* Bachelor in Artificial Intelligence, lectures:
	* 2018: Introduction to Statistics

* Master in Artificial Intelligence:
	* 2018: Philosophy of AI, tutorials
	* 2018-2019: Philosophy of AI, two guest lectures

University of Leuven

* Bachelor in Civil Engineering, exercise classes:
	* 2014-2015 Introduction to Programming: Python
	* 2012-2013 Introduction to Programming: Java

* Bachelor in Industrial Engineering, exercise classes:
	* 2015: Introduction to the IDP knowledge base system
	* 2014-2015 Introduction to Programming: Python
	* 2010-2013 Introduction to Programming: C


University of Leuven

* Undergraduate program Civil Engineering, exercise classes:  
	* 2014-2015 Introduction to Programming: Python  
	* 2012-2013 Introduction to Programming: Java  
    
	    
* Undergraduate program Industrial Engineering, exercise classes:  
	* 2015: Introduction to the IDP knowledge base system  
	* 2014-2015 Introduction to Programming: Python  
	* 2010-2013 Introduction to Programming: C  

	
### Languages

* Dutch: native speaker
* English: excellent
* French: good
* German: moderate
* Spanish: beginner

