---
layout: post
title: 'Articles'
tags: [articles]
description: >

---

### Published

These articles have either been published, or have been accepted for publication in their current form.

* Beckers, S. (2017). AAAI: an Argument Against Artificial Intelligence, In _Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop on AI, Ethics and Society_, forthcoming. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/aiethicssociety_aaai.pdf) 
* Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2016). A Principled Approach to Defining Actual Causation, _Synthese_, forthcoming. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/synthese principled.pdf)[Official version](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11229-016-1247-1)
* Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2016). A General Framework for Defining and Extending Actual Causation using CP-logic, _International Journal for Approximate Reasoning_, 77: 105-126. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/ijar_cplogic.pdf)[Official version](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0888613X16300779)
* Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2015). Towards a General Definition of Actual Causation Using CP-logic. In _Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Probabilistic Logic Programming co-located with ICLP, volume 1413 of CEUR Workshop Proceedings_, 19–38.
* Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2015). Combining Probabilistic, Normative, and Causal Reasoning in CP-logic, In _Proceedings of the 12th International Symposium on Logical Formalizations of Commonsense Reasoning_, 32-38. 
* Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2012). Counterfactual Dependency and Actual Causation in CP-logic and Structural Models: a Comparison. In _Proceedings of the Sixth STAIRS, volume 241 of Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence and Applications_, 35–46. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/Stairs_officialversion.pdf)
* Beckers, S., De Samblanx, G., De Smedt, F., Goedemé, T., Struyf, L., and Vennekens, J. (2012). Parallel hybrid SAT solving using OpenCL. In _Proceedings of Benelux Conference on Artificial Intelligence_, 11-18. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/bnaic_satsolver.pdf)
* Beckers, S., De Samblanx, G., De Smedt, F., Goedemé, T., Struyf, L., and Vennekens, J. (2011). Parallel SAT-solving with OpenCL. In _Proceedings of the IADIS International Conference on Applied Computing_, 435-441.


***

### Unpublished

These articles are either not definitive yet, or have simply not been published.
 
* Beckers, S., and Vennekens, J. (2017). The Transitivity and Asymmetry of Actual Causation, _Ergo_, forthcoming. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/ergo_transitivity.pdf)
* Beckers, S. (2016). Actual Causation: Definitions and Principles, PhD Dissertation. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/phd_official.pdf)



***

### Work in Progress

These papers contain ideas that I am still playing with, or have played with in the past. None of these are finished articles in any shape or form, but hopefully I will finish some of them in the future.

* Beckers, S. (2016). A Formal Approach to the Frankfurt Cases. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/frankfurt_v2.pdf)

* Beckers, S. (2013). All Solutions to the Hardest Logic Puzzle Ever. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/hardestlogicpuzzle.pdf)

***

### Old Stuff

These are some of the papers and dissertations which I wrote as a student, hence they might not be worth spending much (if any) time on.

* Beckers, S. (2011). Deductive Reasoning in Guarded FO(ID), Master Thesis Mathematics. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/old/masterthesismathematics.pdf)

* Beckers, S. (2006). How to Choose a Natural Number at Random. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/old/choosenaturalnumber.pdf)

* Beckers, S. (2006). Wittgenstein en het Ethische, Master Thesis Philosophy. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/old/masterthesisphilosophy.pdf)

* Beckers, S. (2005). Why We Don't End Poverty. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/old/endofpoverty.pdf)

* Beckers, S. (2005). Narrowing the Gap between the Natural and the Social Sciences. [pdf](/website/sander/articles/old/narrowingthegap.pdf)







